<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Endnotes</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="backmatter">
		<section id="endnotes" epub:type="endnotes">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Endnotes</h2>
			<ol>
				<li id="note-1" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Among the Zulus a man assumes the ring, which is made of a species of black gum twisted in with the hair, and polished a brilliant black, when he has reached a certain dignity and age, or is the husband of a sufficient number of wives. Till he is in a position to wear a ring he is looked on as a boy, though he may be thirty-five years of age, or even more. <cite>—<abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:personal-name">A. Q.</abbr></cite> <a href="chapter-1.xhtml#noteref-1" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-2" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>One of the fleetest of the African antelopes. <cite>—<abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:personal-name">A. Q.</abbr></cite> <a href="chapter-1.xhtml#noteref-2" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-3" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Alluding to the Zulu custom of opening the stomach of a dead foe. They have a superstition that, if this is not done, as the body of their enemy swells up so will the bodies of those who killed him swell up. <cite>—<abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:personal-name">A. Q.</abbr></cite> <a href="chapter-1.xhtml#noteref-3" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-4" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>No doubt this owl was a wingless bird. I afterwards learnt that the hooting of an owl is a favourite signal among the Masai tribes. <cite>—<abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:personal-name">A. O.</abbr></cite> <a href="chapter-2.xhtml#noteref-4" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-5" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Since I saw the above I have examined hundreds of these swords, but have never been able to discover how the gold plates were inlaid in the fretwork. The armourers who make them in Zu-vendis bind themselves by oath not to reveal the secret. <cite>—<abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:personal-name">A. Q.</abbr></cite> <a href="chapter-3.xhtml#noteref-5" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-6" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The Masai Elmoran or young warriors can own no property, so all the booty they may win in battle belongs to their fathers alone. <cite>—<abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:personal-name">A. Q.</abbr></cite> <a href="chapter-5.xhtml#noteref-6" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-7" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>As I think I have already said, one of Umslopogaas’s Zulu names was the “Woodpecker.” I could never make out why he was called so until I saw him in action with Inkosi-kaas, when I at once recognized the resemblance. <cite>—<abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:personal-name">A. Q.</abbr></cite> <a href="chapter-7.xhtml#noteref-7" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-8" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>By a sad coincidence, since the above was written by <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Quatermain, the Masai have, in April 1886, massacred a missionary and his wife—<abbr>Mr.</abbr> and <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Houghton—on this very Tana River, and at the spot described. These are, I believe, the first white people who are known to have fallen victims to this cruel tribe. <cite>—Editor</cite> <a href="chapter-8.xhtml#noteref-8" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-9" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Sir Henry afterwards wrote down one of Alphonse’s prayers as he overheard it. It ran thus: “Oh, save me! lake me out of this hole! I will promise never to go exploring again! Oh, Annette, why did I leave thee? Oh, my false cousin! Oh, deliver me from this horrible main drain! Never mind the others! Let them drown; they are more used to it than I am, and they cannot cook! Oh Annette! Annette [<i>cresendo</i>]! Annette [<i>fortissimo</i>]!” <a href="chapter-10.xhtml#noteref-9" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-10" epub:type="endnote">
					<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Allan Quatermain misquotes—Pleasure sat at the helm. <cite>—Editor</cite> <a href="chapter-10.xhtml#noteref-10" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-11" epub:type="endnote">
					<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<!--se:different-->
							<span>In Kubla Khan a river ran</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Through caverns measureless to man</span>
							<br/>
							<span>Down to a sunless sea</span>
						</p>
					</blockquote>
					<p>
						<a href="chapter-10.xhtml#noteref-11" epub:type="backlink">↩</a>
					</p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-12" epub:type="endnote">
					<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Quatermain does not seem to have been aware that it is common for animal-worshipping people to annually sacrifice the beasts they adore. See Herodotus, <span epub:type="z3998:roman">ii</span>. 45. <cite>—Editor</cite> <a href="chapter-12.xhtml#noteref-12" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-13" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>There is another theory which might account for the origin of the Zu-Vendi which does not seem to have struck my friend <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Quatermain and his companions, and that is, that they are descendants of the Phœnicians. The cradle of the Phœnician race is supposed to have been on the western shore of the Persian Gulf. Thence, as there is good evidence to show, they emigrated in two streams, one of which took possession of the shores of Palestine, while the other is supposed by savants to have immigrated down the coast of Eastern Africa where, near Mozambique, signs and remains of their occupation are not wanting. Indeed, it would have been very extraordinary if they did not, when leaving the Persian Gulf, make straight for the East Coast, seeing that the northeast monsoon blows for six months in the year dead in that direction, while for the other six months it blows back again. And, by the way of illustrating the probability, I may add that to this day a very extensive trade is carried on between the Persian Gulf and Lamu and other East African ports as far south as Madagascar, which is of course the ancient Ebony Isle of the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book">Arabian Nights</i>. <cite>—Editor</cite> <a href="chapter-13.xhtml#noteref-13" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-14" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>There are twenty-two letters in the Phœnician alphabet (see Appendix, Maspero’s <i epub:type="se:name.publication.book" xml:lang="fr">Histoire ancienne des peuples de l’Orient</i>, <abbr>etc.</abbr>) Unfortunately <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Quatermain gives us no specimen of the Zu-Vendi writing, but what he here states seems to go a long way towards substantiating the theory advanced in the note on <abbr>p.</abbr> 139. <cite>—Editor</cite> <a href="chapter-13.xhtml#noteref-14" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-15" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>These are internal measurements. <cite>—<abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:personal-name">A. Q.</abbr></cite> <a href="chapter-14.xhtml#noteref-15" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-16" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Light was also admitted by sliding shutters under the eaves of the dome and in the roof. <cite>—<abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:personal-name">A. Q.</abbr></cite> <a href="chapter-14.xhtml#noteref-16" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-17" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>This line is interesting as being one of the few allusions to be found in the Zu-Vendi ritual to a vague divine essence independent of the material splendour of the orb they worship. “<i xml:lang="zu">Ptia</i>,” the word used here, has a very indeterminate meaning, and signifies <em>essence, vital principle, spirit</em>, or even <em>God</em>. <a href="chapter-14.xhtml#noteref-17" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-18" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Alluding to the Zulu custom. <cite>—<abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:personal-name">A. Q.</abbr></cite> <a href="chapter-16.xhtml#noteref-18" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-19" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>In Zu-Vendis members of the Royal House can only be married by the High Priest or a formally appointed deputy. <cite>—<abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:personal-name">A. Q.</abbr></cite> <a href="chapter-19.xhtml#noteref-19" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-20" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Alluding to the Zu-Vendi custom of carrying dead officers on a framework of spears. <a href="chapter-20.xhtml#noteref-20" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-21" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>The Zu-Vendi people do not use bows. <cite>—<abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:personal-name">A. Q.</abbr></cite> <a href="chapter-20.xhtml#noteref-21" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-22" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Of course, the roof of the Temple, being so high, caught the light some time before the breaking of the dawn. <cite>—<abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:personal-name">A. Q.</abbr></cite> <a href="chapter-21.xhtml#noteref-22" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-23" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>Of course the Court of Probate would allow nothing of the sort. <cite>—Editor</cite> <a href="chapter-24.xhtml#noteref-23" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
				<li id="note-24" epub:type="endnote">
					<p>It is suggested to me that this book is The Cruise of the “Falcon’, with which work I am personally unacquainted. <a href="authorities.xhtml#noteref-24" epub:type="backlink">↩</a></p>
				</li>
			</ol>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
